[PLAT-1854] docs: Dynamic resource labels (#818)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/resource-labels/overview.md

Additional dynamic values, such as the user or team that launched a run, will be supported in a future release.

:::info
**Dynamic resource labels** tag resources with unique values for each pipeline run. Nextflow applies these labels at workflow submission and execution time, not during compute environment creation. See the **Submission time** and **Execution time** resources listed for each cloud provider on this page.
:::

### Benefits of dynamic resource labels

Dynamic resource labels provide several key advantages:

- **Granular cost tracking**: Associate cloud costs with specific workflow runs rather than entire compute environments or projects.
- **Automated attribution**: Apply labels automatically at execution time - no manual tagging of individual runs
- **Enhanced reporting**: Filter and group costs by individual workflow runs in your cloud provider's cost management tools.
- **Audit trails**: Track resource usage patterns for specific workflows over time.

## Create resource labels

**Workspace-level labels**: Create resource labels at the workspace level for consistent use across compute environments, pipelines, runs, and actions:

> 1. Navigate to your workspace **Settings** > **Edit labels**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your workspace,  select **Settings** > **Edit labels**.
```

See [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/Using_Tags.html#tag-restrictions) for more information on AWS resource tagging.

## Google Cloud

The following resources are tagged using the labels associated with the compute environment (either [Batch](../compute-envs/google-cloud-batch.md) or [Cloud](../compute-envs/google-cloud.md)):

**Submission time**
- Job (Batch)

**Execution time**
- AllocationPolicy (Batch)
- VirtualMachine (Cloud)

### View costs by resource labels in Google Cloud

> Google Cloud includes resource labels in billing data, making them available for cost analysis and reporting:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Cloud includes resource labels in billing data for cost analysis and reporting:
```
Simplified maybe?

- The key and value cannot contain a consecutive combination of `-` or `_` characters (`--`, `__`, `-_`, etc.)
- A maximum of 25 resource labels can be applied to each resource.
- A maximum of 1000 resource labels can be used in each workspace.
- Keys and values in Google Cloud Resource Manager may contain only lowercase letters. Resource labels created with uppercase characters are converted to lowercase before being propagated to Google Cloud.

See [here](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/creating-managing-labels#requirements) for more information on Google Cloud Resource Manager labeling.

## Azure

:::note
The labeling system on Azure Cloud uses the term metadata to refer to resource and other labels.
:::

When creating an Azure Batch compute environment with Forge, resource labels are added to the Pool parameters — this adds set of `key=value` metadata pairs to the Azure Batch Pool.

:::warning
In Azure Batch compute environments, the [Azure Batch node pool](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/batch/nodes-and-pools) is managed by the compute environment and **resource labels are fixed at the time of creation**.
:::

### View costs by resource labels in Azure

> Azure supports cost analysis by tags, but requires additional configuration for tag inheritance and cost allocation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azure supports cost analysis by tags. However, you must configure tag inheritance and cost allocation.
```
Maybe?

:::note

> Dynamic resource labels create tags on Azure Batch resources, but Azure's cost reporting integration has some limitations. Azure tags may not always appear immediately in Cost Management.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dynamic resource labels create tags on Azure Batch resources. However, Azure's cost reporting integration has some limitations. Azure tags may not always appear immediately in **Cost Management**.
```
Sentence is probably fina as is, please check if Cost management is UI element.

:::

**Prerequisites**: Billing profile contributor/owner permissions for billing profile tags, and Contributor role or Tag Contributor role for resource tagging.

**Steps to enable cost tracking**:

> 1. **Enable Tag Inheritance** (recommended): Navigate to Cost Management in the Azure portal, select a billing account or subscription scope, and under Settings > **Configuration** > **Tag inheritance**, enable "Automatically apply subscription and resource group tags to new data". See [Azure tag inheritance documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/costs/enable-tag-inheritance) for detailed steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Enable Tag Inheritance** (recommended): Navigate to Cost Management in the Azure portal, select a billing account or subscription scope, and under **Settings** > **Configuration** > **Tag inheritance**, enable "Automatically apply subscription and resource group tags to new data". See [Azure tag inheritance documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cost-management-billing/costs/enable-tag-inheritance) for detailed steps.
```

- **Combine static and dynamic labels**: Use dynamic resource labels alongside static labels for comprehensive cost attribution (e.g., static `project=genomics` with dynamic `platformRun=${workflowId}`).
- **Monitor tag limits**: Stay within cloud provider tag limits (25 tags per resource for AWS/GCP/Azure).
- **Document your schema**: Maintain documentation of your tagging strategy for team members who will analyze costs.

## Troubleshooting

**Tags not appearing in cost reports**: 
- Allow up to 24 hours for tags to appear in AWS cost allocation console
- For Azure, enable tag inheritance and allow 24 hours for processing
- Verify that resources are actively running and generating usage data

**Permission errors**: 
- Ensure compute environment credentials have the required tagging permissions
- For Google Cloud, verify billing account administrator access
- For Azure, confirm billing profile contributor permissions

**Missing tag values**: 
- Verify that resource labels are applied to the correct compute environment
- Check that workflows are using the tagged compute environment
- For dynamic labels, ensure variables use correct syntax: `${workflowId}` and `${sessionId}`

> ## Related Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Related documentation
```
Do we have standard phrasing for this? Learn more? Additional resources?

- [Resource Labels Overview](overview) - General resource labels functionality
- [AWS Batch Compute Environments](../compute-envs/aws-batch) - Setting up AWS compute environments with tagging
- [Google Cloud Compute Environments](../compute-envs/google-cloud) - Google Cloud environment configuration

> - [Azure Compute Environments](../compute-envs/azure) - Azure environment setup and limitations

Reviewer: Im not sure about the capitalization of these
